:building_construction:  Python CDK: add schema transformer class (#6139)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/connector-development/cdk-python/schemas.md

    return schema
```

## Schema normalization

> Complying output data  to declared json schema is important because those data later could be used by destination that rely on received data types (e.g. when data is stored in SQL database and you can't put INTEGER type into CHAR column and so on). In case of minor jsonschema mistake or API change could break synchronization process even if data fetching completed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to ensure output data conforms to the declared json schema. This is because the destination receiving this data to load into tables may strictly enforce schema (e.g. when data is stored in a SQL database, you can't put INTEGER type into CHAR column). In the case of changes to API output (which is almost guaranteed to happen over time) or a minor mistake in jsonschema definition, data syncs could thus break because of mismatched datatype schemas.
```

> To handle this cases CDK provides ability to perform automatic object tranformation before output it to destination controller. All streams inherited from airbyte_cdk.sources.streams.core.Stream class have transform confgiuration that able to perform operation on individual object's field value. By default it do no changes and can be reconfigured in user's streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remain robust in operation, the CDK provides a transformation ability to perform automatic object mutation to align with desired schema before outputting to the destination. All streams inherited from airbyte_cdk.sources.streams.core.Stream class have this transform configuration available. It is _disabled_ by default and can be configured per stream within a source connector.
```

### Default schema normalization

> Lets say you want have output records from controller to be casted to the type described on json schema. This is how you can configure it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets say you want have output records from controller to be cast to the type described on json schema. This is how you can configure it:
```

```python
from airbyte_cdk.sources.utils.transform import TransformConfig, Transformer
from airbyte_cdk.sources.streams.core import Stream

class MyStream(Stream):
    ...
    transformer = Transformer(TransformConfig.DefaultSchemaNormalization)
    ...
```
In this case default transformation will be applied. For example if you have schema like this
```json
{"type": "object", "properties": {"value": {"type": "string"}}}
```
and source API returned object with non-string type, it would be casted to string automaticaly:
```json
{"value": 12} -> {"value": "12"}
```
Also it works on complex types:
```json

> {"value": {"unexpected_object": "value"}} -> {"value": "{'unexpected_object': 'value'}"}

Reviewer 2: in this example the types are unchanged right?

Author: object {"unexpected_object": "value"} has been casted to a string representing object **"**{'unexpected_object': 'value'}**"**

Reviewer 2: AH I see it now. thanks!

```
And objects inside array of referenced by $ref attribute.

 In case if value cannot be casted (e.g. string "asdf" cannot be casted to integer) field would contain original value and no error reported. Schema normalization support any jsonschema types, nested objects/arrays and reference types. Types described as array of more than one type (except "null"), types under oneOf/anyOf keyword wont be transformed.

*Note:* This transformation is done by source, not stream itself. I.e. if you have overriden "read_records" method in your stream it wont affect object transformation. All transformation are done in-place by modifing output object before passing it to "get_updated_state" method, so "get_updated_state" would receive transformed object.

### Custom schema normalization

> Default schema normalization perform simple type casting regardless its format. Sometimes you want to perform more sofisticated transform like making "date-time" field compliant to rcf3339 standard. In this case you can use custom schema normalization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default schema normalization perform simple type casting regardless its format. Sometimes you want to perform more sophisticated transform like making "date-time" field compliant to rcf3339 standard. In this case you can use custom schema normalization:
```

    return schema
```

> ## Schema normalization

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately the world `normalization` is [already taken](https://docs.airbyte.io/understanding-airbyte/basic-normalization) in Airbyte 😅 

maybe we can replace it with something like `TypeTransformation` or `TypeCasting`?

Author: Done, replaced it with "type transformation"

> It is important to ensure output data conforms to the declared json schema. This is because the destination receiving this data to load into tables may strictly enforce schema (e.g. when data is stored in a SQL database, you can't put CHAT type into INTEGER column). In the case of changes to API output (which is almost guaranteed to happen over time) or a minor mistake in jsonschema definition, data syncs could thus break because of mismatched datatype schemas.

Reviewer 2: These docs are fantastic! very thorough and user friendly.

Author: Thanks!

To remain robust in operation, the CDK provides a transformation ability to perform automatic object mutation to align with desired schema before outputting to the destination. All streams inherited from airbyte_cdk.sources.streams.core.Stream class have this transform configuration available. It is _disabled_ by default and can be configured per stream within a source connector.

> ### Default schema normalization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Default schema normalization
```

> Lets say you want have output records from controller to be cast to the type described on json schema. This is how you can configure it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's how you can configure the TypeTransformer:
```

```python
from airbyte_cdk.sources.utils.transform import TransformConfig, Transformer
from airbyte_cdk.sources.streams.core import Stream

class MyStream(Stream):
    ...
    transformer = Transformer(TransformConfig.DefaultSchemaNormalization)
    ...
```
In this case default transformation will be applied. For example if you have schema like this
```json
{"type": "object", "properties": {"value": {"type": "string"}}}
```
and source API returned object with non-string type, it would be casted to string automaticaly:
```json
{"value": 12} -> {"value": "12"}
```
Also it works on complex types:
```json
{"value": {"unexpected_object": "value"}} -> {"value": "{'unexpected_object': 'value'}"}
```
And objects inside array of referenced by $ref attribute.

>  In case if value cannot be casted (e.g. string "asdf" cannot be casted to integer) field would contain original value and no error reported. Schema normalization support any jsonschema types, nested objects/arrays and reference types. Types described as array of more than one type (except "null"), types under oneOf/anyOf keyword wont be transformed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the value cannot be cast (e.g. string "asdf" cannot be casted to integer), the field would retain its original value. Schema normalization support any jsonschema types, nested objects/arrays and reference types. Types described as array of more than one type (except "null"), types under oneOf/anyOf keyword wont be transformed.
```

> *Note:* This transformation is done by source, not stream itself. I.e. if you have overriden "read_records" method in your stream it wont affect object transformation. All transformation are done in-place by modifing output object before passing it to "get_updated_state" method, so "get_updated_state" would receive transformed object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Note:* This transformation is done by the source, not the stream itself. I.e. if you have overriden "read_records" method in your stream it wont affect object transformation. All transformation are done in-place by modifing output object before passing it to "get_updated_state" method, so "get_updated_state" would receive transformed object.
```

> *Note:* This transformation is done by source, not stream itself. I.e. if you have overriden "read_records" method in your stream it wont affect object transformation. All transformation are done in-place by modifing output object before passing it to "get_updated_state" method, so "get_updated_state" would receive transformed object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Note:* This transformation is done by source, not stream itself. I.e. if you have overriden "read_records" method in your stream it wont affect object transformation. All transformation are done in-place by modifing output object before passing it to "get_updated_state" method, so "get_updated_state" would receive the transformed object.
```

### Custom schema normalization

> Default schema normalization perform simple type casting regardless its format. Sometimes you want to perform more sophisticated transform like making "date-time" field compliant to rcf3339 standard. In this case you can use custom schema normalization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default schema normalization performs simple type casting. Sometimes you want to perform more sophisticated transform like making "date-time" field compliant to rcf3339 standard. In this case you can use custom schema normalization:
```
